Write out a generic SELECT statement.
 SELECT number
 FROM phoneNumber
 WHERE id LIKE '%Johnson';

Create a fun way to remember the order of operations in a SELECT statement, such as a mnemonic.
Here is a little jingle: SELECT what you wanna get, FROM the place you wanna take, from WHEREVER, LIKE however.

Given this dogs table, write queries to select the following pieces of data:
Intake teams typically guess the breed of shelter dogs, so the breed column may have multiple words (for example, "Labrador Collie mix").

Display the name, gender, and age of all dogs that are part Labrador.
SELECT name,gender,age 
FROM dogs
WHERE breed LIKE %Labrador%

Display the ids of all dogs that are under 1 year old.
SELECT id
FROM dogs
WHERE age < 1

Display the name and age of all dogs that are female and over 35lbs.
SELECT name,age
FROM dogs
WHERE gender = "F" AND weight > 135

Display all of the information about all dogs that are not Shepherd mixes
SELECT *
FROM dogs
WHERE breed NOT LIKE "%Sheperd%"

Display the id, age, weight, and breed of all dogs that are either over 60lbs or Great Danes.
SELECT id,age,weight,breed
FROM dogs
WHERE weight > 50 OR breed="Great Danes"

Given this cats table, what records are returned from these queries?

SELECT name, adoption_date FROM cats;
All the names and adoption dates from the name and adoption_date column

SELECT name, age FROM cats;
All the names and ages from the name and age column

From the cats table, write queries to select the following pieces of data.
Display all the information about all of the available cats.
SELECT * FROM cats

Display the name and sex of all cats who are 7 years old.
SELECT name,sex 
FROM cats 
WHERE age = 7;

Find all of the names of the cats, so you don’t choose duplicate names for new cats.
SELECT name
FROM cats

List each comparison operator and explain when you would use it. Include a real world example for each.
If you can’t list these from memory, do these flashcards until you can!
Equal operator(=) returns values that are equal to the specified value.
Example: Finding all the cats whose color is equal to black.

Lesser than operator (<) returns values that are less than what you specify.
Example: Selecting people that make less than a certain amount a month for Student Loans.

Lesser than or equal operator (<=) returns values that are lesser than or equal to what you specify.
Example: Selecting food that have lesser than or equal to a specified calories.

Greater than operator (>) returns values that are greater than what you specify.
Example: Selecting kids that are greater than a specified height required to ride a roller coaster.

Greater than or equal operator (>=) returns values that are greater than or equal to what you specify
example: Selecting people that are greater than or equal to 18 to sign forms.

Inequality Operator (!=/<>) returns values that are not equal to what you specify.
example: Selecting all the kids whose Measels vaccination isn't completed.

From the cats table, what data is returned from these queries?
SELECT name FROM cats WHERE gender = ‘F’; 
All the names of the female cats from the name column.

SELECT name FROM cats WHERE age <> 3;
The names of the cats that have age that is not 3.

SELECT ID FROM cats WHERE name != ‘Mushi’ AND gender = ‘M’;
The id of the male cats whose name isn't "Mushi".