What data types do each of these values represent?

"A Clockwork Orange" = text
42 = numeric
09/02/1945 = date
98.7 = float
$15.99 = money

Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.

A database would be ideal if you are dealing with massive amount of data that need to be stored efficiently. A textfiles would be used when the data isn't massive, if the data is easily  managable and you want it to be readable by humans , a text file would be ideal.

Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.

Unlike other languahe SQL is a declarative language rather than a procedural language, meaning we don't make an algorith on how to deal with data, we simply tell the data what we want from it.

In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.

Databases display data in a table structure with columns that label what the data represents. Each rows contains data relating the columns making up a table.

Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.

Table is the overall structure of data in a database consisting of rows and columns. A row is a line of data where each the value is related to the column it is in. A column defines what value goes in the slots. A value is the data that is in each slot of the table.

List three data types that can be used in a table.

Date, Text, Numeric

Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:

     SELECT date, amount
     FROM payments;

     retrieve all the dates and amounts from the payment table.
     The result would be table with 2 columns of dates and amounts.

     SELECT amount
     FROM payments
     WHERE amount > 500;
     
     retrieve all the amount that is greater then 500 from oayments table.
     The result would be a a table with a column of dates that are less than 500.

     SELECT *
     FROM payments
     WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';
      
     retrieve data from all columns where the payee is "Mega foods".
     The result is a table of all the data from the row that has "Mega Food" in the payee column.

Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:

The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.

SELECT email, signup date
FROM users
WHERE name = DeAndre Data

The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.

SELECT user ID
FROM users
WHERE email='aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'

All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.

SELECT *
FROM users
WHERE users ID = 4